Navigable Small World) graphs, a breakthrough ANN 
algorithm widely adopted in vector databases. By organizing 
vectors into multiple hierarchical layers connected by 
small‐world graph links, HNSW enables efficient low‐latency 
nearest‐neighbor search with logarithmic complexity. This 
paper provides both theoretical analysis and empirical 
benchmarks, showing that HNSW outperforms tree‐ and 
hashing‐based methods by delivering 10× faster queries at 
comparable recall levels. Given the high‐dimensional nature 
of log embeddings, HNSW forms the backbone of many 
production‐grade 
vector 
stores, 
empowering real‐time 
similarity search essential for prompt anomaly detection and 
clustering tasks. 
In [6], the authors present a comprehensive study on semantic 
embedding–driven 
log 
anomaly 
detection 
combining 
embedding generation with integrated neural network 
classifiers. They fine‐tune transformer encoders on log 
corpora to generate dense event embeddings, which are then 
fed into hybrid convolutional‐recurrent neural networks for 
anomaly scoring. The paper details optimizations such as 
dynamic embedding augmentation and adaptive thresholding 
based on clustering statistics. Experimental results illustrate 
accuracy gains of up to 14% over vanilla embedding‐only 
detectors and a 30% reduction in false positives. The study 
also examines vector‐indexing strategies, advocating for 
in‐memory ANN indexes to balance throughput and resource 
utilization.